My name is Wang Zhendong, a chinese boy who loves software development. I used to be a student of statistics, but my ineterest of software finally drove me to become a developer. Now, I'm a senior application developer both for .Net and BI in Citibank. Though I'm quite comfortable with current work, I always have a dream to learn more advanced CS knowledge and technology. I hope I could build both useful and interesting software by using them. That's why I apply for this fantastic master program.

I first got my interest in software development when I was working as an intern in BASF. I developed a little automatic reporting generation system there and helped my collegues get rid of the time-consuming manually reporting works. I was excited to realize how powerful can software be to help us work more efficiently and I'm totally attracted by the internal design of a software. Though with very limit CS knowledge, I think it's a good option for me to choose software development as my future career since I'm very very interested in it. I soon start my self-learning plan for all the basic things like OO programming, database design, client and server programming for web apps etc. Though the process is not easy, I'm happy with them.


In 2013, after I graduated from school, I started my first job working on a startup project, which is to build an real-time testing tool for digital chips. One of the main difficulty in this project is we need to show our user the data in a real-time way with as less delay as possible. Since the data is collected from chips in a high frequency, a high performance asynchoronous data processing framework is deadly needed. I was in charge of the design for this module and it was very challenge. I began my first step by reading many articles and books about multi-thread programming. I learn how to use different lock, how to write thread-safe class and some classical design patterns for multi-thread programming. Then I tried to do serveral prototypes by using different models. After trying and trying, I realized the core solution for this issue is I need to decompose my data processing into reasonable separate steps and try to parallel them run together. I finally got a well-performance model but I didn't stop there. I also encapsulate those complex multi-thread logic inside thread-safe classes and let the whole architecture look clearly and explicityly. With reasonable design, The  module's performance finally proved to be very good! There are many other interesting challenges I met during this project and all of them triggered me to learn more advanced knowledge like enterprise software architecture, AOP programming, domain driven development etc. In my heart, I believe by learning these, I could find better ways to develop complex software more efficiently! To experience more challenge projects, I choose to join Citibank in 2014 after my first project.

In Citibank, I become mroe mature in software development. As a senior developer, I think not only how to implement a new function but also whether the function is well designed and easy to understand by my colleagues. I also try to use advanced techonology like meta-programming and model driven development in my daily work. In last year, I design a high performance parsing framework  which can let user using GUI to pick up fields they want from different data source like xml, json, excel etc and use their selection to generate the parsing logic without writing any code! The logic is generated by a meta-program by using user's selection and meta-data collect from sample files. Also, user don't need to write their own parallel enhancement to parsing large volumne data more efficiently since the framework will tuning the performance and generate high performance execution plan according to the source data's structure. In one word, the user only needs to take care of their business logic and the framework will take care of the rest. With its good performance, the framework won an 10000RMB reward in '2015 Citigroup find an talent innovation competition'. The framework even got the 3rd highest techonology score out of the total 120 projects. 

Except my enterprise experience, I'm also quite interested in many acadamic projects. [Here](https://github.com/wyvernlang/wyvern) is a open source compiler project I'm now working on.(the Issue 35, 36 is fixed by me) It's a prototype of a new language which can hold type-checked DSL inside it seamlessly! I hope I could contribute more on those fancy projects like this one with innovation ideas in the future. 

Finally some explanations on my low GPA. Though it's not high overall, but my score on those CS related classes are very high. For example, for the data structure and algorithm, I got 92 and for information ..., I got 92. My job in Citibank also best proves my ability on software development since each year, only 10% interviewers will pass Citi's interview. You can also see I perform well in Citi from my colleague's recommenation letters.

I really hope I could have the honor to be selected in University of Pittsburgh's CS master program. My wife is already reading here from last year and she highly recommends it to me! I believe the program will be both useful and interesting! Just can't wait to join!


